this is a new fable written in 2018
December the title is Socrates in the
Fox Socrates saw him smiling on a tree
stump all alone he had no pack as wolves
do no cave no high of no home you and I
live simply Fox we go barefoot when it
snows you have a tail so big and
beautiful like a pillow for your nose he
curled up in a circle so his tail became
his bedding the truly clever need no
comfort just a place to rest our head
end the Fox he thinks he's clever but
alone you lack debate I have a keener
test of wits than that and the pleasures
twice as great
perhaps we are alike said Socrates if
this is how you live every day I learn
by disputation to try to get as much as
give at this the Fox laughed loudly
is that what you call a test of wit
you'd starve here in the forest your
words all chewed and bit some days
you'll see me eating lamb some days I'm
eating rat I'll steal one outsmarting
lions I'll steal the other from a cat
Kings collect their taxes and doctors
charge their fees this forest hunts on
my behalf
they're all my employees I'm the
cleverest of animals and the sweetest
thing is not the meal
it's the feeling that I'm cleverer than
those from whom I steal so this is why
you're smiling socrates was in disbelief
you think whoever cheats is smartest and
you're the worst of all the cheats if a
fish thinks he's fast when swimming he
compares the others fin to fin he can't
measure it out with a clam he can only
strive to win
I test my mind the same as you Socrates
to see who's the wisest of us all but
the test is not of right or wrong
it's a race to see the last of all but
right and wrong true and false these are
the lines that make the track without
them anyone can claim to win even
running front to back
the Fox thinks he's happy stealing
sneering at those he's stolen from but
to laugh at another sorrow seems to me
truly dumb Fox you've taught me
something new about men who think
they're clever if they win or lose their
chosen race depends upon the measure I
wrote that in a little more than one
hour it's the second in a series of
stories maybe they'll be about 5
featuring Socrates talking to different
animals series of fables that could be
bound up in Illustrated as a book could
be in some small way the start of a new
tradition some new philosophical ideas
being introduced to children asking some
of the right questions maybe parents in
the fullness of time can lead their
children's awards some of the right
answers too you can make fun of me so
far that's how everyone's respond of
this effort or you could support it you
could say wow what a great idea why
don't I do something like this myself
why don't I take a creative attitude
towards the pursuit of political change
the pursuit of cultural change the
pursuit of social change
wanna try do something creative rather
than destructive and if you can't you
could support the efforts that I'm
making
we have to engage in cultural production
of new ideas and new meanings and we
have to be better at it than the
Christians and the Muslims better than
all the religious fundamentalists and we
have to keep we have to compete with
Disney and Nintendo all the corporate
for-profit stuff as well we have to be
at least as good as Curious George and
we have to provide a meaningful
alternative a meaningful alternative to
what Christmas already offers kids today
[Music]